CHAPTER VII Mr. Bennet's property consisted almost entirely
in an estate of two thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed
in default of heir's mail on a distant relation, and their mother's fortune, though ample for
her situation in life, could but ill supply the deficiency of his. Her father had been
an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds. She had a sister married
to a Mr. Phillips, who had been a clerk to their father and succeeded him in the business,
and a brother settled in London in a respectable line of trade. The village of Longbourn was
only one mile from Meryton, a most convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually
three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt and to a milliner's shop just
over the way. The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent
in these attentions. Their minds were more vacant than their sisters, and when nothing
better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation
for the evening. And however bare of news the country in general might be, they always
to learn some from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied, both with
news and happiness, by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighborhood.
It was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the headquarters. Their visits to Mrs.
Phillips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence. Every day added something to
their knowledge of the officers' names and connections. Their lodgings were not long
secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves. Mr. Phillips visited
them all, and this opened to his nieces a store of felicity unknown before. They could
talk of nothing but officers, and Mr. Bingley's large fortune, the mention of which gave animation
to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.
After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr. Bennet coolly observed,
From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest
girls in the country. I have suspected it some time, but I am now convinced.
Catherine was disconcerted and made no answer, but Lydia, with perfect indifference, continued
to express her admiration of Captain Carter, and her hope of seeing him in the course of
the day, as he was going the next morning to London.
I am astonished, my dear, said Mrs. Bennet, that you should be so ready to think your
own children silly. If I wish to think slightingly of anybody's children, it should not be of
my own, however. If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it. Yes,
but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.
This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I had hoped that
our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think
our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish.
My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of their father and
mother. When they get to our age, I dare say they will not think about officers any more
than we do. I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well, and indeed I
still do at my heart, and if a smart young colonel with five or six thousand a year should
want one of my girls, I shall not say nay to him. And I thought Colonel Forster looked
very becoming the other night at Sir William's in his regimentals.
Mama, cried Lydia, my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain Carter do not go so often
to Miss Watson's as they did when they first came. She sees them now very often standing
in Clark's library.
Mrs. Bennet was prevented from replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for
Miss Bennet. It came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer.
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out while her
Well, Jane, who's it from? What's it about? What does he say? Well, Jane, make haste and
tell us. Make haste, my love.
It is from Miss Bingley, said Jane, and then read it aloud.
My dear friend, if you are not so compassionate as to dine today with Louisa and me, we shall
be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives, for a whole day's tete-a-tete
between two women can never end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on receipt
of this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
Yours ever, Caroline Bingley.
With the officers, cried Lydia. I wonder my aunt did not tell us of that.
Dining out, said Mrs. Bennet, that is very unlucky.
Can I have a carriage? Asked Jane.
No, my dear, you'd better go on horseback because it seems likely to rain, and then
you must stay all night.
That would be a good scheme, said Elizabeth, if you were sure that they would not offer
to send her home.
Oh, but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley's chaise to go to Mariton, and the hearths
have no horses to theirs.
I'd much rather go on the coach.
But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I'm sure. They're wanted in the
farm, Mr. Bennet, are they not?
They're wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.
But if you've got them today, said Elizabeth, my mother's purpose will be answered.
She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged.
Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her mother attended her to the door with
many cheerful prognostics of a bad day.
Her hopes were answered.
Jane had not been gone long before it rained hard.
Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was delighted.
The rain continued the whole evening without intermission.
Jane would certainly not come back.
This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed, said Mrs. Bennet more than once, as if the credit
of making it rain were all her own.
Till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance.
Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note
for Elizabeth.
My dearest Lizzie, I find myself very unwell this morning, which I suppose is to be imputed
to my getting wet through yesterday.
My kind friends will not hear of my returning till I'm better.
They insist also on my seeing Mr. Jones.
Therefore, do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me.
And, accepting a sore throat and a headache, there is not much the matter with me, yours,
etc.
Well, my dear, said Mr. Bennet when Elizabeth had read the note aloud, if your daughter
should have a dangerous fit of illness, if she should die, it would be a comfort to know
that it was all in pursuit of Mr. Bingley and under your orders.
Oh, I'm not afraid of her dying.
People do not die of little trifling colds.
She'll be taken good care of.
As long as she stays there, it is all very well.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage.
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her, though the carriage was not
to be had, and as she was no horsewoman, walking was her only alternative.
She declared her resolution.
How can you be so silly, cried her mother, as to think of such a thing in all this dirt?
You will not be fit to be seen when you get there.
I shall be very fit to see Jane, which is all I want.
Is this a hint to me, Lizzie, said her father, to send for the horses?
No, indeed, I do not wish to avoid the walk.
The distance is nothing when one has a motive only three miles.
I shall be back by dinner.
I admire the activity of your benevolence, observed Mary, but every impulsive feeling
should be guided by reason, and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to
what is required.
We will go as far as Meryton with you, said Catherine and Lydia.
Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off together.
If we make haste, said Lydia as they walked along, perhaps we may see something
of Captain Carter before he goes.
In Meryton they parted, the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the
officer's wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk alone, crossing field after field
at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing over puddles with impatient
activity, and finding herself at last within view of the house, with weary
ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.
She was shown into the breakfast parlor, where all but Jane were assembled, and
where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day in such dirty weather
and by herself was almost incredible to Mrs.
Hurst and Miss Bingley, and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in
contempt for it.
She was received, however, very politely by them, and in their brothers'
manners there was something better than politeness.
There was good humor and kindness.
Mr.
Darcy said very little, and Mr.
Hurst nothing at all.
The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had
given to her complexion, and doubt as to the occasions justifying her coming so
far alone.
The latter was thinking only of his breakfast.
Her inquiries after her sister were not very favorably answered.
Miss Bennet had slept ill, and though up was feverish, and not well enough to
leave her room.
Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her immediately, and Jane, who had only been
withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience from expressing in her
note how much she longed for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance.
She was not equal, however, to much conversation, and when Miss Bingley left
them together, could attempt little besides expressions of gratitude for the
extraordinary kindness she was treated with.
Elizabeth silently attended her.
When breakfast was over they were joined by the sisters, and Elizabeth began to
like them herself when she saw how much affection and solicitude they showed
for Jane.
The apothecary came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be
supposed, that she had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavor to
get the better of it, advised her to return to bed, and promised her some
drafts.
The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her
head ached acutely.
Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other ladies often
absent, the gentlemen being out, they had, in fact, nothing to do elsewhere.
When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very
unwillingly said so.
Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only wanted a little pressing to
accept it, when Jane testified such concern in parting with her, that Miss
Bingley was obliged to convert the offer of the chaise to an invitation to
remain at Netherfield for the present.
Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was dispatched to Longbourn
to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
End of chapter seven.
Read by Krista McQuillen, Tokyo, Japan, November 7th, 2005.